I'm sure I heard some time ago that you
were working on a screenplay for the
excellent confederacy of dunces what
happened and if you're not doing it who
is it's it's one of the great i'm not
sure what the phrases it's the holy
grail for some certainly that's one
that's perhaps a bit extreme but it's
one of the most extraordinary novels of
the 20th century in America those who
don't know it was written by a man boy
orally called john kennedy toole at the
age of fourteen fifteen had written a
book called the Neon Bible returns Davis
made into a film which was a satire on
American churches and then at the very
young age he wrote his masterpiece
confederacy of dunces taken from a
jonathan swift line you may know a
genius by this sign that their dances
are all in Confederacy against him let's
randomly paranoid unfortunately he
produced the book and then committed
suicide and it is just an extraordinary
book and many many people have wanted to
set it for film earliest i think was
John Belushi wanted to play Riley every
actor of any size is considered playing
it because in brother as I was saying
about Oscar Wilde you know there if
you're a big fat actor there a certain
you know roles are never going to get
that you might occasionally think one
day I'll BF all-star for one day I'll be
a you know it's none of the other and
Ignatius be Riley's certainly one then
John Candy and how Ramos Stroh promised
depending i would like to pronounce him
worked on a version John Candy died so
the film's beginning of it was cursed
not only at the author committed suicide
incidentally the first year as soon as
it was published in one of posthumous
Pulitzer Prize for John Kennedy calls
game has never been out of print it as
one of the classics of latish
mid-to-late 20th century American
literature eventually in the 90s I i had
was asked through pepper through
paramount through Scott Rudin who was a
producer their new had a deal with
paramount and if I might consider
writing
and I'd known the book and suddenly
enough when I worked on a comedy series
years ago in the 80s with John with them
robbie coltrane Robbie had said to me we
don't read that book I'd love to play
Ignatius Riley one day and an indie
Robbie would be quite brilliant would
have been I guess he's now obviously
chalk I said to Paramount all the cheeky
I said look the second biggest caption
the novel after Ignatius is is New
Orleans I've never been there they said
I'll go to the trouble of its fine
sorted out I had it I had a week two
weeks in New Orleans wandering around
with the notebook from mr. marvelous
time my life and I eventually wrote a
script and then a second version which
and I actually collaborated with steve
sandberg steven soderbergh the director
then he oh it was a very complicated
business about who and the rights in
whoo-hoo like this which version by the
body part the simple answer to it is
every now and again there's an article
in a trade paper or variety type you
know magazine which says the ongoing
curse of competitive dances it's one of
those famous projects that is you know
I'm one of many who've written but there
are many others and one day someone will
do it it's rumored you've written a
doctor who script that was shelled
because it was too expensive to produce
is this true and if so what was it about
and I still hoping that eventually it
will see the light of day I I don't
dismiss the idea of it you know entirely
disappear are really coming back I
didn't dismiss the idea of it coming
back it was based on Gawain in the Green
Knight The Legend of Gawain and Green
Knight one of the sub Arthurian legends
Gawain was one of the nights Gavin I
suppose will be his modern name Benjamin
night
Gavin it seems so wrong doesn't it but
anyway there's a feast in in in the hall
11 winter and incomes of enormous green
night
you